---
layout: post
title: Will religious "ethics" become obsolete?
date: 2012-08-27 10:00:01 -8:00
---

I have good days for English and bad days for English. So today was a bad one, apparently. 

I didn’t finish my issue essay in the class, because I spent too much time thinking over the prompt. It’s not that I didn’t know what to write – I just tried to put my writing in _nicer_ words for I really wanted to share my opinion on religious books and their value today. FYI, the prompt was more abstract – about ancient works and how we understand and judge them today.

What I wanted to say is that religious books (I did not differentiate religions, but I specified that I meant monotheistic religions) might be fine for historians or anthropologists. You know, studying customs and beliefs of old times, fascinating! Think of the way we treat Norse or Greek mythology today, so cool and adventurous. But it was so hard to write about this topic without going too far or inadvertently hurting the readers who might be religious. 

Sometimes I feel that certain ethical sensitivities hold us all back. It’s not just about religions in general, although most of the troubles in todays ethical reasoning are caused by various religious reflections and pondering. For instance, I would like the world to endorse human genetic experiments, but can we do it like in China? – No. Why? – Because of religious interpretations and discrepancies on what is considered to be alive. 

Sometimes I fantasize about a perfect _Star Trek-like_ world, where knowledge and reason dominate people’s minds and motivations. Will we ever get there? Will our real world become homogenously rational and logic? I wish so, but unfortunately it seems that we're more likely heading towards _Elysium_ type of reality.
