---
layout: post
title: To My Friend
date: 2015-09-08 10:00:01 -8:00
---

My dear friend,

You were dying that night, and I tried to be near. But now that I am remembering that night I feel shame and guilt. I wasn’t fully there with you. 

You have been my true dear friend, and I was afraid, no doubt. But when you were in agony, screaming without actually making a sound, opening your mouth wide and closing it in spasms, I was too weak to stay with you until the end. 

When I was little, I went to the river with my uncle and my brother. They wanted to fish. I think I saw the death of a living creature for the first time that day.  A little water snake got stuck in the fishing net. When my uncle released him from the net, he had but a few minutes to live and then died in the same agony I observed years later. He was injured. His small jaws were opening and closing, and his little body was wriggling in what I thought was tremendous pain. If snakes could moan, he’d moan, I thought. I was petrified. I saw life slipping away for the first time. 

But then you, my friend. That very same movement of jaws. Do all living creatures scream without sound when dying? Were you scared, lonely, angry? Did you feel abandoned? Or just numb and indifferent? Did you want me to stay with you? 
I was selfish, I know. I built a wall between us. I stayed up all night, knowing, it would be your last night. But I wasn’t holding your paw every moment, I didn’t try to ease your pain. I checked on you frequently, but was too distracted by some vague illusions for which I blame myself to just be there.

We all saw you fading away and didn’t do anything to ease it for you. We tortured you and ourselves, seeing how weak you become. In the wild you would probably go some place quiet where no one could see you. You would die in dignity. But we let you suffer and watched you, not knowing what we can do. You did not deserve such a disgraceful end. But then again, who does?
I don’t even know where my parents buried you. I couldn’t go with them. But I know it was a cold January that year. The ground was frozen and too hard. 

I found a whisker in the carpets and a couple of shed claws after that. There will also be one little scar on my belly you gave me that one time you got scared and jumped off me.  
 
